Chilli Dogs – Quick Easy Meals
Ingredients

2 large frankfurter-style hotdog sausages
2 hotdog buns
50g Lancashire cheese, crumbled or grated
1 spring onion, trimmed and finely chopped
FOR THE QUICK CHILLI CON CARNE:
Olive oil, for frying
1 small onion, peeled and finely diced
2 garlic cloves, peeled and finely chopped
½ tsp cumin seeds
½ –1 tsp chilli powder, to taste
300g minced beef
1 tsp Worcestershire sauce
2 tsp tomato purée
1 × 400g tin chopped tomatoes
Pinch of caster sugar
½ tsp dried oregano
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
FOR THE CARAMELISED ONIONS:
2 red onions, peeled and finely sliced
1 tbsp brown sugar
1 tbsp balsamic vinegar
Instructions

First make the quick chilli con carne. Heat a saucepan over a medium heat. Add a dash of oil and, once hot, sweat the onion for 4–5 minutes, then add the garlic and fry for another minute until soft. Add the cumin seeds and stir over a medium heat for 1–2 minutes until aromatic. Add the chilli powder and mix well.
Season the mince. Turn up the heat and add another dash of oil to the pan. Fry the mince over a high heat for 6–8 minutes, stirring well to break it up. When it is lightly browned, add the Worcestershire sauce, turn down the heat and add the tomato purée, cooking for 1–2 minutes.
Add the tomatoes, sugar and oregano along with a pinch of pepper. Bring to a simmer, cover and simmer gently for 20 minutes, stirring frequently.
Meanwhile, prepare the caramelized onions. Heat a small frying pan over a medium low heat and add a dash of oil. Add the onions with a good pinch of salt and gently sweat for 10–15 minutes until completely softened and turning a rich golden color. (Don’t increase the heat to speed up this process as you’ll end up with burnt onions.) Once the onions are golden and really soft, add the sugar and balsamic vinegar. Increase the heat to medium and allow caramelizing gently. Cook for about 5 minutes until the liquid is reduced and the onions are nice and sticky. Taste and adjust the seasoning as necessary.
When ready to serve, boil or griddle the sausages for 6 minutes or until heated through. Remove and drain. Divide the caramelized onions between the opened hot dog buns. Top with the cooked sausage and a generous spoonful or two of chilli con carne. Crumble over the cheese and finish with a sprinkling of chopped spring onion.